{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}{\f1 Arial;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\fs24
\pard\qc\b\fs36 SME Ledger & OCR Product Roadmap\b0\par
\pard\qc\fs20 Last updated: September 26, 2025\par
\pard\par
\pard\sa200\b\fs28 North Star\b0\fs24\par
\pard\li360\sa120\bullet \tab Capture everywhere (Telegram, email, web, mobile) \emdash auto-extract \emdash suggest \emdash one-tap apply \emdash export to accounting.\par
\bullet \tab Reliable OCR + smart parsing, category intelligence, and tax/VAT handling by country.\par
\pard\par
\pard\sa200\b\fs28 Platform & Architecture\b0\fs24\par
\pard\li360\sa120\bullet \tab Consolidate services: keep bot, worker, API, and dashboard as modules in one repo with a shared \ldblquote domain\rdblquote  package.\par
\bullet \tab Durable DB: migrate to Postgres (or keep SQLite for single-user, Postgres for multi-tenant). Use Prisma for schema, migrations, and type-safety.\par
\bullet \tab Queues/workers: move jobs to BullMQ + Redis (retry, backoff, concurrency, scheduling).\par
\bullet \tab File storage: switch attachments to S3-compatible storage (MinIO locally) with signed URLs and lifecycle rules.\par
\bullet \tab Config: central .env with schema validation (zod/env-var). Secrets via Doppler/1Password/GitHub Envs.\par
\pard\par
\pard\sa200\b\fs28 Reliability, Observability, Ops\b0\fs24\par
\pard\li360\sa120\bullet \tab Logging: pino + request IDs; redact PII.\par
\bullet \tab Metrics: Prometheus + Grafana dashboards (jobs processed, OCR success rate, latencies).\par
\bullet \tab Errors: Sentry on API, worker, and frontend.\par
\bullet \tab Backups: nightly DB + attachment backups; restore scripts; integrity checks.\par
\bullet \tab CI/CD: GitHub Actions (lint/test/build), preview deploys, release tagging.\par
\pard\par
\pard\sa200\b\fs28 Security & Compliance\b0\fs24\par
\pard\li360\sa120\bullet \tab Auth: JWT sessions, role-based access (Owner, Accountant, Staff).\par
\bullet \tab Audit log: immutable table for changes and approvals.\par
\bullet \tab Rate limiting, input validation everywhere.\par
\bullet \tab PII handling and data retention policies; right-to-delete per user.\par
\bullet \tab Multi-tenant isolation (tenant_id on all tables, Row-Level Security for Postgres).\par
\pard\par
\pard\sa200\b\fs28 Core Product Features (High ROI)\b0\fs24\par
\pard\li360\sa120\bullet \tab Bank CSV import + auto-categorization and reconciliation.\par
\bullet \tab Receipt-to-transaction linking: detect potential matches (amount/date/merchant), one-click attach.\par
\bullet \tab Budgets and alerts: per category monthly, with over/under spend notifications.\par
\bullet \tab VAT/GST support: per-country rules, per-line tax detection, export VAT report.\par
\bullet \tab Multi-currency: auto FX via daily rates; base-currency reporting.\par
\bullet \tab Advanced search: by merchant, amount range, category, date, and attachment presence.\par
\pard\par
\pard\sa200\b\fs28 OCR/AI Upgrades\b0\fs24\par
\pard\li360\sa120\bullet \tab Cloud OCR adapters behind a flag: Azure Document Intelligence (prebuilt receipt/invoice) and Google Document AI. Keep Tesseract as fallback.\par
\bullet \tab Structured extraction: model for fields (merchant, date, total, tax breakdown, currency) with confidence scores; show diff in UI.\par
\bullet \tab Self-hosted option: PaddleOCR + PP-Structure for on-premise.\par
\bullet \tab Active learning: Accept/reject trains alias/category models and extraction heuristics.\par
\bullet \tab Layout-aware \ldblquote closest total\rdblquote  using OCR geometry (bounding boxes).\par
\pard\par
\pard\sa200\b\fs28 UX & Surfaces\b0\fs24\par
\pard\li360\sa120\bullet \tab Suggestions inbox: triage view, batch-apply, keyboard shortcuts, conflict highlighting.\par
\bullet \tab Editing experience: quick inline edits; smart defaults; templates per merchant.\par
\bullet \tab Timeline and reports: cashflow, category drill-down, vendor spend, recurring patterns.\par
\bullet \tab Mobile: PWA with offline capture and delayed upload; camera doc scan with auto-crop.\par
\bullet \tab Email ingestion: unique inbox address; auto-attach PDFs to entries.\par
\pard\par
\pard\sa200\b\fs28 Integrations\b0\fs24\par
\pard\li360\sa120\bullet \tab Accounting: Xero, QuickBooks, Zoho Books (exports and direct sync).\par
\bullet \tab Storage: Google Drive/OneDrive/Dropbox for backup of attachments.\par
\bullet \tab Communications: WhatsApp (Twilio) and email replies with confirmation links.\par
\pard\par
\pard\sa200\b\fs28 Data Model Enhancements\b0\fs24\par
\pard\li360\sa120\bullet \tab Tables: entries, attachments, suggestions, vendors, aliases, budgets, approvals, audit_log, exchange_rates, tax_rules, tenants/users.\par
\bullet \tab Soft deletes (deleted_at), versioning for entries, and mapping for vendor normalization.\par
\bullet \tab Indexing on date, category, amount; trigram index for merchant fuzzy search (Postgres).\par
\pard\par
\pard\sa200\b\fs28 Growth & Analytics\b0\fs24\par
\pard\li360\sa120\bullet \tab Product analytics: PostHog for UX funnels (capture \u8594? suggest \u8594? apply).\par
\bullet \tab Feature flags: Unleash/ConfigCat for controlled rollouts.\par
\bullet \tab Onboarding checklist and sample data for new tenants.\par
\pard\par
\pard\sa200\b\fs28 Developer Experience\b0\fs24\par
\pard\li360\sa120\bullet \tab Monorepo tooling: pnpm workspaces or turbo; ESLint/Prettier; TypeScript across backend and worker.\par
\bullet \tab Contract tests for OCR providers and extraction schema.\par
\bullet \tab Seed scripts and factory data for realistic dev runs.\par
\pard\par
\pard\sa200\b\fs28 Monetization (if SaaS)\b0\fs24\par
\pard\li360\sa120\bullet \tab Stripe billing: free tier (local OCR), Pro (cloud OCR + integrations), Business (multi-user, approvals).\par
\bullet \tab Usage-based add-ons: OCR pages, storage.\par
\pard\par
\pard\sa200\b\fs28 30/60/90-Day Action Plan\b0\fs24\par
\pard\li360\sa120\b Next 30 days\b0\par
\pard\li720\sa60\bullet \tab Introduce Prisma + Postgres (or keep SQLite as \ldblquote local mode\rdblquote ), migrate schema.\par
\bullet \tab Add BullMQ + Redis; convert current OCR worker.\par
\bullet \tab S3 storage for attachments; signed URLs.\par
\bullet \tab Observability: pino, Sentry, basic Prometheus metrics.\par
\bullet \tab UI: Suggestions inbox with batch actions and confidence indicators.\par
\pard\li360\sa120\b Next 60 days\b0\par
\pard\li720\sa60\bullet \tab Cloud OCR adapters with feature flag; geometry-aware extraction and confidence scoring.\par
\bullet \tab Bank CSV import + reconciliation; vendor normalization; duplicates detection.\par
\bullet \tab Budgets + alerts; multi-currency FX service.\par
\bullet \tab Audit log + roles/permissions.\par
\pard\li360\sa120\b Next 90 days\b0\par
\pard\li720\sa60\bullet \tab Xero/QuickBooks export/sync.\par
\bullet \tab Email ingestion + PDF parsing.\par
\bullet \tab Mobile PWA polish (camera scanning) and offline queue.\par
\bullet \tab Stripe billing and tenant management.\par
\pard\par
\pard\sa200\b\fs28 Quick Wins to Ship First\b0\fs24\par
\pard\li360\sa120\bullet \tab Batch review/apply in Suggestions with confidence sorting.\par
\bullet \tab Bank CSV import + mapping wizard (detect columns; remember per-bank format).\par
\bullet \tab S3-backed attachment storage with migration utility.\par
\bullet \tab Cloud OCR adapter scaffold with toggle and safe fallbacks.\par
\pard\par
\pard\fs20 \i Notes:\i0  This RTF opens in Microsoft Word. If you need a .docx file, open this in Word and \ldblquote Save As\rdblquote  \emdash or let me know and I can export it as .docx.\par
}
